So if you could just identify yourself for the tape recorder, I'd appreciate it.
I'm Vicki Reich.
Okay, I'll just put this over your name, please.
I'm a librarian.
Hi.
Hi, what's your name, Vicki?
R-E-I-C-H.
Okay, and Vicki is short for Victoria, or is Vicki from Vic?
No, it's short for Victoria, but you may only call me that if you're angry.
Well, if I use your name in an article, it probably should be... Vicki is just fine.
Vicki is just fine.
And what are you doing right now?
Well, I have a number of responsibilities in the library, all centering around digital library projects and electronic publishing.
Is this something I can access with my computer?
Absolutely.
And how would I do that?
You have a Netscape browser?
I do.
Everything I'm going to show you, you can get to yourself.
Okay.
If you go to HiWire,
It's .stanford.edu.
And highwire is one word.
Mm-hmm.
Just like this.
Yeah.
And because I'm on the Stanford network, I don't have to type in the last one.
Because it'll be a while before I transcribe this tape.
It's highwire.
Mm-hmm.
What did you say?
.stanford.
Do you spell it?
Stanford.
Yes.
Yeah.
.edu.
And that'll take me right here.
And that'll take you to this page.
Yeah.
And I should probably have two more ones.
I'm doubted they should use the 28.8.
That's what I think, right?
Right.
Did Mike talk to you about high wire?
Yes, he did.
Okay.
So I'm just showing you what's here.
Exactly.
More or less.
I don't have to give you the overview.
Let's see.
So he's told you why we're doing this and what journals we have up.
So let me show you the first one we've put up.
Journal of Biological Chemistry.
Journal of Biological Chemistry has full text, including all images, since January 1995.
Make sure that's right.
And all the issues can be searched
So if I wanted to find out all the times that someone had done experiments with mice and cancer, and I could do a search across the entire database and get up the full text.
Or I can find information by browsing issue by issue.
And so what I've done is I've gone to the table of contents here for the most current issue that we have up.
23 August 96.
Right.
So that's about two weeks ago.
Yes.
Unfortunately, up until about three weeks ago, we were putting these up on cover date, and we had a technical glitch, and the last couple of issues haven't gone up on them, which is unfortunate.
But by and large, the journals go up on the cover date.
Did Mike show you a copy of the journal?
The paper journal?
No.
Is this something I can take with me?
Okay.
Interesting, here we are on a computer.
Over on the wall is a poster that says, Medieval Book of Lamentations, 1996.
Is that an exhibition that was at Sanford?
The Medieval Book?
No, that's a calendar from a book sender.
Anyway, this is the JVC in paper.
It's six to nine hundred pages a week.
I see.
And I'm sorry, when you meant paper, I thought we were talking about paper.
No, no, no.
So you can see that for this particular journal, it becomes a lot more functional online.
It's really, even in paper, it's really a database.
It's basically written stone there, too.
I mean, if somebody wanted to go in and modify or update, you can't do it on a printed page.
You can't do his own thing, right.
As happens so often in the scientific fields, I would imagine.
Right.
Well, and the other advantages for the online over the paper is that
All of these figures and images originated as electronic files.
For the biologists, one of the most important kind of data is this color, it's called gels, color gels.
G-E-L-L-S?
G-E-L-L-S.
And you'll get it pointing to about a dozen or so.
Right.
They look like slides, actually.
They're like slides, and they occur in the paper version.
Every couple of pages.
And these are all electronic.
They're all done with electronic equipment, and then they get transformed into this.
They're scanned, basically.
They're scanned.
So in the online... Are those available here, too?
They are.
You can price these up.
In the online world, we can provide much better clarity because we can just attach the original files.
Also, the color in the paper is very expensive, and the color online is just no different from the black and white.
It's a little extra time to load it.
So it's much better science.
So here's the table of contents for the... That's an interesting line.
Much better science.
Much better science, yeah.
Really, the point of HiWire is to help science communicate much better science, much better quality science.
So let's go to the full text of an article.
I have no idea.
I can do this myself, too.
I'm glad you show up.
Actually, you don't have to spend an hour with me.
Ten minutes would be fine.
Okay, great.
What I suggest you look at when you look at JVC is the different ways that we present the images, the fact that when you get to the references, we've linked all the references in the paper to the MEDLINE database.
So if you wanted to find out... What did you call it?
MEDLINE.
M-E-E-L-I-N-E.
That's an actual... Database that's... I understand.
...that's housed with the National Organization.
Okay.
I am not familiar with it.
I am computer literate, so it helps.
Okay.
Right.
And so you can get at least to the abstracts of older articles.
And as we bring more full text up online, we link from the references to full text wherever possible.
Okay.
Let's go back to HiWire.
Okay, I'm going to show you one other thing that you just keep your eye open for when you browse.
What's different about HiWire from other companies that are putting journals online is we understand the nuances of a particular journal or a particular magazine and how the audiences differ and how
people use the science differently from one community, biological community to the next, even within biology.
And so the journals themselves online have variations.
Science, JVC, people want to browse and search equally because of the nature of the science and the nature of the text.
Science, browsing is much more important than searching, and it's reflected in the way we've designed the interface.
Browsing is much more important.
So the serendipity factor is pretty important.
Yes.
Well, you're familiar with Science Magazine?
As a publication.
As a publication, right.
It's weekly, too, but it's thinner.
It has more government policy.
It has more news.
It has a much wider audience.
The paper is far more important than the paper that's here.
And so the design is different.
The design is more for more of a mass, I would not call it a mass audience, but more of a mass audience.
If you want to do searching, you have to go down another level in the menu on the web.
See, this is the same kind of search page that we have for J.B.
Siebert.
not as prominently placed.
And the table of contents has a different layout.
The bibliographic information is much more truncated, and we have buttons for people to get to the abstract.
Why is your blank space on the right?
Ah, here?
When we design the screen,
We found out that most science readers have very small monitors and are using a motor.
And so we designed it for people who have smaller screens.
I'm not a Windows user, so I don't know how to use... I don't know how to... I would shrink this.
You would shrink it, yeah.
Yeah, if I knew how to do it.
And it's like this.
Whoa!
Yeah, that's what it is.
That's as large as you're going to get it, I believe.
Yeah, I wanted, you know, if I could, I would shrink it down, but since... You'd shrink it down even more?
No, I would shrink, I would move this window over.
Oh, I see.
So that there wasn't all this wasted space and I could do other things on the water.
Anyway.
So you can see... There are lots of nuances of this.
Okay, clearly.
Okay, so...
i think the other thing anybody can go on here it doesn't cost you anything right well gbc to get to the full text now requires a subscription but you can get to the abstracts and the table of contents and do the searching everyone on the web has access to that and it tells you you have to probably like getting a new year of time to subscribe if you want to get the end of the thing right and and so all the background information is really on this webpage and who we are and
Okay.
You know what?
I'm going to run and try and catch this next train.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
The other URL that Mike wanted you to look at.